mpitests/README.md, before:

# Demos with MPI to test RoCE on SEREN cluster

We have to do some general setups before we run the demos here.

1. Setup a Python 3 virtual environment with following packages installed. For the demos discussed here, I assume that a proper environment exists at `/data/seren-01/fast/den15c/venv3.7` on `seren-01`.
```
cycler==0.11.0
fonttools==4.28.5
kiwisolver==1.3.2
matplotlib==3.5.1
mpi4py==3.1.3
numpy==1.21.5
packaging==21.3
Pillow==9.0.0
pkg-resources==0.0.0
pybind11==2.9.0
pyparsing==3.0.6
python-dateutil==2.8.2
-e git+git@github.com:askap-craco/python-rdma-transport.git@d89034beaf154aafdae1e6fe880810f15f76cdfe#egg=rdma_transport
six==1.16.0
```

2. We have a Python script `run_cluster_messages.py` at `/data/seren-01/fast/den15c/craco-python/mpitests` to launch MPI transmitters and receivers with given options.

`run_cluster_messages.py` has help to tell us how to use it. For the demos here, we will set `--method` as `rdma`, will use default setup for `--test` option, the setup of `--nrx` and `--nlink` will be discussed in each demo seperately. `--num-blks`, `--nun-cmsgs` and `--msg-size` are important for performace, but using the setup given in the following demos should be good enough. `--nmsg` is the number of messages, which should not be too big or too small. 

## Summary of demos
We have demos for following user cases:
-  One transmitter and one receiver running on the same node, use multiple nodes;
-  One transmitter and one receiver running on seperate nodes, with one pair of transmitter and receiver;
-  Similar to the previous demo, but with multiple pairs of transmitters and receivers;
-  Two transmitters and two receivers running on the same node, receivers run on the same process, transmitters run on seperate processes, with only one node;
-  Similar to the previous demo, but with multiple nodes;
-  Two transmitters and two receivers running on seperate nodes, receivers run on the same node, transmitters run on seperate nodes, with one pair of three;
-  Similar to the previous demo, but with multiple pairs of three;

## One transmitter and one receiver running on the same node, use multiple nodes

The demo here has transmitter and receiver using the same network interface. 

1. Write the hostname of all nodes along with `slots=2` into a file like `mpi_seren.txt`, the file with all 10 nodes should look like as follow. 
```
seren-01 slots=2
seren-02 slots=2
seren-03 slots=2
seren-04 slots=2
seren-05 slots=2
seren-06 slots=2
seren-07 slots=2
seren-08 slots=2
seren-09 slots=2
seren-10 slots=2
```
2. Write a shell script `mpi_seren.sh` in `/data/seren-01/fast/den15c/craco-python/mpitests` to define the job which will be done by MPI, the following script is an example in `bash`:

```
#!/bin/bash

export WORKDIR=/data/seren-01/fast/den15c
source $WORKDIR/venv3.7/bin/activate; $WORKDIR/craco-python/mpitests/run_cluster_messages.py --nrx 10 --nlink 10 --method rdma --msg-size 65536 --num-blks 10 --num-cmsgs 100 --nmsg 100_000
```

3. Run `mpirun -map-by ppr:2:node --rank-by node -hostfile /data/seren-01/fast/den15c/craco-python/mpitests/mpi_seren.txt /data/seren-01/fast/den15c/craco-python/mpitests/mpi_seren.sh` to exacuth the job with MPI.

Once the execution is done, we should see print out information as follow:
```
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 transmitter elapsed time is 0.5373530387878418 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 0, elapsed time is 0.5373380184173584 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 transmitter data rate is 97.56863033336262 Gbps

INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 0, data rate is 97.57135769849394 Gbps
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 0, message missed is 0
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 0, message received is 100000
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 0, message total is 100000
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 0, message loss rate is 0.0

INFO:__main__:Rank 1 transmitter elapsed time is 0.5383594036102295 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 1 transmitter data rate is 97.38624355479502 Gbps

INFO:__main__:Rank 1 receiver from transmitter 0, elapsed time is 0.5383477210998535 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 1 receiver from transmitter 0, data rate is 97.38835690227698 Gbps
INFO:__main__:Rank 1 receiver from transmitter 0, message missed is 0
INFO:__main__:Rank 1 receiver from transmitter 0, message received is 100000
INFO:__main__:Rank 1 receiver from transmitter 0, message total is 100000
INFO:__main__:Rank 1 receiver from transmitter 0, message loss rate is 0.0

INFO:__main__:Rank 3 transmitter elapsed time is 0.5423808097839355 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 3 receiver from transmitter 0, elapsed time is 0.5423851013183594 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 3 transmitter data rate is 96.66418695913245 Gbps

INFO:__main__:Rank 3 receiver from transmitter 0, data rate is 96.66342211938137 Gbps
INFO:__main__:Rank 3 receiver from transmitter 0, message missed is 0
INFO:__main__:Rank 3 receiver from transmitter 0, message received is 100000
INFO:__main__:Rank 3 receiver from transmitter 0, message total is 100000
INFO:__main__:Rank 3 receiver from transmitter 0, message loss rate is 0.0

INFO:__main__:Rank 9 transmitter elapsed time is 0.542844295501709 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 9 receiver from transmitter 0, elapsed time is 0.5428245067596436 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 9 transmitter data rate is 96.58165413996682 Gbps

INFO:__main__:Rank 9 receiver from transmitter 0, data rate is 96.58517503745436 Gbps
INFO:__main__:Rank 9 receiver from transmitter 0, message missed is 0
INFO:__main__:Rank 9 receiver from transmitter 0, message received is 100000
INFO:__main__:Rank 9 receiver from transmitter 0, message total is 100000
INFO:__main__:Rank 9 receiver from transmitter 0, message loss rate is 0.0

INFO:__main__:Rank 6 transmitter elapsed time is 0.5433382987976074 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 6 transmitter data rate is 96.4938420796463 Gbps

INFO:__main__:Rank 6 receiver from transmitter 0, elapsed time is 0.5433351993560791 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 6 receiver from transmitter 0, data rate is 96.49439252626142 Gbps
INFO:__main__:Rank 6 receiver from transmitter 0, message missed is 0
INFO:__main__:Rank 6 receiver from transmitter 0, message received is 100000
INFO:__main__:Rank 6 receiver from transmitter 0, message total is 100000
INFO:__main__:Rank 6 receiver from transmitter 0, message loss rate is 0.0

INFO:__main__:Rank 2 transmitter elapsed time is 0.5436379909515381 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 2 transmitter data rate is 96.44064777046404 Gbps

INFO:__main__:Rank 2 receiver from transmitter 0, elapsed time is 0.5436296463012695 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 2 receiver from transmitter 0, data rate is 96.44212812291133 Gbps
INFO:__main__:Rank 2 receiver from transmitter 0, message missed is 0
INFO:__main__:Rank 2 receiver from transmitter 0, message received is 100000
INFO:__main__:Rank 2 receiver from transmitter 0, message total is 100000
INFO:__main__:Rank 2 receiver from transmitter 0, message loss rate is 0.0

INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 1
INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 0
INFO:__main__:Rank 5 transmitter elapsed time is 0.5442266464233398 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 5 transmitter data rate is 96.33633403392196 Gbps

INFO:__main__:Rank 5 receiver from transmitter 0, elapsed time is 0.5442161560058594 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 5 receiver from transmitter 0, data rate is 96.3381910320125 Gbps
INFO:__main__:Rank 5 receiver from transmitter 0, message missed is 0
INFO:__main__:Rank 5 receiver from transmitter 0, message received is 100000
INFO:__main__:Rank 5 receiver from transmitter 0, message total is 100000
INFO:__main__:Rank 5 receiver from transmitter 0, message loss rate is 0.0

INFO:__main__:Rank 8 receiver from transmitter 0, elapsed time is 0.5444185733795166 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 8 receiver from transmitter 0, data rate is 96.30237204168942 Gbps
INFO:__main__:Rank 8 transmitter elapsed time is 0.5444128513336182 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 8 transmitter data rate is 96.30338422681989 Gbps

INFO:__main__:Rank 8 receiver from transmitter 0, message missed is 0
INFO:__main__:Rank 8 receiver from transmitter 0, message received is 100000
INFO:__main__:Rank 8 receiver from transmitter 0, message total is 100000
INFO:__main__:Rank 8 receiver from transmitter 0, message loss rate is 0.0

INFO:__main__:Rank 4 receiver from transmitter 0, elapsed time is 0.5450468063354492 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 4 receiver from transmitter 0, data rate is 96.19137180620903 Gbps
INFO:__main__:Rank 4 transmitter elapsed time is 0.5450639724731445 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 4 transmitter data rate is 96.18834237403792 Gbps

INFO:__main__:Rank 4 receiver from transmitter 0, message missed is 0
INFO:__main__:Rank 4 receiver from transmitter 0, message received is 100000
INFO:__main__:Rank 4 receiver from transmitter 0, message total is 100000
INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 0
INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 1
INFO:__main__:Rank 4 receiver from transmitter 0, message loss rate is 0.0

INFO:__main__:Rank 7 transmitter elapsed time is 0.5458018779754639 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 7 receiver from transmitter 0, elapsed time is 0.5457911491394043 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 7 transmitter data rate is 96.05829901955174 Gbps

INFO:__main__:Rank 7 receiver from transmitter 0, data rate is 96.0601872761568 Gbps
INFO:__main__:Rank 7 receiver from transmitter 0, message missed is 0
INFO:__main__:Rank 7 receiver from transmitter 0, message received is 100000
INFO:__main__:Rank 7 receiver from transmitter 0, message total is 100000
INFO:__main__:Rank 7 receiver from transmitter 0, message loss rate is 0.0

INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 0
INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 1
INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 0
INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 1
INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 1
INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 0
INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 0
INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 1
INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 0
INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 1
INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 1
INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 0
INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 1
INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 0
INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 1
INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 0
```

The above print out information tells us that we successfully finish the test and the bandwidth on each node is about 100 Gbps.

Please be aware that, for the test here:
1. The example above is for a test with 10 nodes. We can change the number of nodes to any number in a range (0 10], but the number of nodes in `mpi_seren.txt` should matach the number given by `--nrx` and `--nlink`;
2. Make sure that all nodes in `mpi_seren.txt` are up and running fine;
3. The test here only for throughput check, not for test with result comparison, like the `--test=ones` or `--test=increment`. Test with result comparison will harm the performance so that receiver will not be able to receive all packets. Which will cause the script hangs as receivers may wait for missed packets forever.

## One transmitter and one receiver running on seperate nodes, with one pair of transmitter and receiver

1. Write the hostname of selected two nodes along with `slots=1` into a file like `mpi_seren.txt`, the file with `seren-01` and `seren-02` as selected nodes should look like as follow. In this case, we only have one pair of transmitter and receiver.
```
seren-01 slots=1
seren-02 slots=1
```
2. Write a shell script `mpi_seren.sh` in `/data/seren-01/fast/den15c/craco-python/mpitests` to define the job which will be done by MPI, the following script is an example in `bash`:

```
#!/bin/bash

export WORKDIR=/data/seren-01/fast/den15c
source $WORKDIR/venv3.7/bin/activate; $WORKDIR/craco-python/mpitests/run_cluster_messages.py --nrx 1 --nlink 1 --method rdma --msg-size 65536 --num-blks 10 --num-cmsgs 100 --nmsg 100_000
```

3. Run `mpirun -map-by ppr:1:node --rank-by node -hostfile /data/seren-01/fast/den15c/craco-python/mpitests/mpi_seren.txt /data/seren-01/fast/den15c/craco-python/mpitests/mpi_seren.sh` to exacuth the job with MPI.

Once the execution is done, we should see print out information as follow:
```
INFO:__main__:seren-01, rdma_buffers for receiver shape is (1, 10, 100, 65536)
INFO:__main__:seren-02, rdma_buffers for transmitter shape is (10, 100, 65536)
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 0, elapsed time is 0.5365250110626221 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 0, data rate is 97.71920957824764 Gbps
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 0, message missed is 0
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 0, message received is 100000
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 0, message total is 100000
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 transmitter elapsed time is 0.5365099906921387 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 transmitter data rate is 97.72194536836652 Gbps

INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 0, message loss rate is 0.0

INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 1
INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 0
```

The above print out information tells us that we successfully finish the test and the bandwidth sending data from `seren-02` to `seren-01` is about 100 Gbps.

Please be aware that, for the test here:
1. We can also select other nodes by updating the file `mpi_seren.txt`;
2. We need to make sure that both selected nodes are up and run fine;
3. `--nrx` and `--nlink` is determined by the number of transmitter and receiver pair.

## Similar to the previous demo, but with multiple pairs of transmitters and receivers

We can easily update the previous demo to run it with multiple pairs of transmitters and receivers. .

1. Add more nodes along with `slots=1` into a file like `mpi_seren.txt`, the file with `seren-01`, `seren-02` and `seren-03` and `seren-04` as selected nodes should look like as follow. In this case, we will have two pairs of transmitters and receivers. 
```
seren-01 slots=1
seren-02 slots=1
seren-03 slots=1
seren-04 slots=1
```
2. Update ` --nrx` and `--nlink` with correct number of transmitter and receiver pairs, for two pairs of transmitters and receivers, we have:

```
#!/bin/bash

export WORKDIR=/data/seren-01/fast/den15c
source $WORKDIR/venv3.7/bin/activate; $WORKDIR/craco-python/mpitests/run_cluster_messages.py --nrx 2 --nlink 2 --method rdma --msg-size 65536 --num-blks 10 --num-cmsgs 100 --nmsg 100_000
```

3. Run `mpirun -map-by ppr:1:node --rank-by node -hostfile /data/seren-01/fast/den15c/craco-python/mpitests/mpi_seren.txt /data/seren-01/fast/den15c/craco-python/mpitests/mpi_seren.sh` to exacuth the job with MPI.

Once the execution is done, we should see print out information as follow:
```
INFO:__main__:seren-03, rdma_buffers for transmitter shape is (10, 100, 65536)
INFO:__main__:seren-01, rdma_buffers for receiver shape is (1, 10, 100, 65536)
INFO:__main__:seren-02, rdma_buffers for receiver shape is (1, 10, 100, 65536)
INFO:__main__:seren-04, rdma_buffers for transmitter shape is (10, 100, 65536)
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 0, elapsed time is 0.5364596843719482 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 0, data rate is 97.7311092097819 Gbps
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 0, message missed is 0
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 0, message received is 100000
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 0, message total is 100000
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 0, message loss rate is 0.0

INFO:__main__:Rank 0 transmitter elapsed time is 0.5364863872528076 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 transmitter data rate is 97.72624477663412 Gbps

INFO:__main__:Rank 1 transmitter elapsed time is 0.5365962982177734 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 1 transmitter data rate is 97.7062275198965 Gbps

INFO:__main__:Rank 1 receiver from transmitter 0, elapsed time is 0.5365936756134033 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 1 receiver from transmitter 0, data rate is 97.7067050595898 Gbps
INFO:__main__:Rank 1 receiver from transmitter 0, message missed is 0
INFO:__main__:Rank 1 receiver from transmitter 0, message received is 100000
INFO:__main__:Rank 1 receiver from transmitter 0, message total is 100000
INFO:__main__:Rank 1 receiver from transmitter 0, message loss rate is 0.0

INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 0
INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 1
INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 1
INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 0
```

The above print out information tells us that we successfully finish the test and the bandwidth sending data from `seren-02` to `seren-01` and from `seren-04` to `seren-03` is about 100 Gbps.

## Two transmitters and two receivers running on the same node, receivers run on the same process, transmitters run on seperate processes, with only one node

The demo here has all transmitters and receivers running on the same network interface.

1. Bring up Python virtual environment with `source /data/seren-01/fast/den15c/venv3.7/bin/activate`
2. Go to directory `/data/seren-01/fast/den15c/craco-python/mpitests`
3. Run `mpirun -c 3 run_cluster_messages.py --nrx 1 --nlink 2 --method rdma --msg-size 65_536 --num-blks 10 --num-cmsgs 100 --nmsg 1_000_000` there to execute `run_cluster_messages.py` with MPI.

Once the execution is done, we should see print out information as follow:
```
INFO:__main__:seren-01, rdma_buffers for transmitter shape is (10, 100, 65536)
INFO:__main__:seren-01, rdma_buffers for transmitter shape is (10, 100, 65536)
INFO:__main__:seren-01, rdma_buffers for receiver shape is (2, 10, 100, 65536)
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 transmitter elapsed time is 10.084518432617188 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 transmitter data rate is 51.98939379239491 Gbps

INFO:__main__:Rank 1 transmitter elapsed time is 10.085363626480103 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 1 transmitter data rate is 51.98503687298204 Gbps

INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 0, elapsed time is 10.085368156433105 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 0, data rate is 51.98501352333627 Gbps
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 0, message missed is 0
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 0, message received is 1000000
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 0, message total is 1000000
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 0, message loss rate is 0.0

INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 1, elapsed time is 10.085368156433105 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 1, data rate is 51.98501352333627 Gbps
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 1, message missed is 0
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 1, message received is 1000000
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 1, message total is 1000000
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 1, message loss rate is 0.0

INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 0
INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 1
INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 1
INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 0
```

Which proves that we successfully finish the execution there. Given that we use a 100 Gbps NiC to do the test and we have two data streams there, each stream has about 50 Gbps available network bandwidth, which is exactly what we see here.

Commit message:

update how to setup demos environment

mpitests/README.md, after:

# Demos with MPI to test RoCE on SEREN cluster

We have to do some general setups before we run the demos here.

1. Setup a Python 3 virtual environment with following packages installed. For the demos discussed here, I assume that a proper environment exists at `/data/seren-01/fast/den15c/venv3.7` on `seren-01`.
```
cycler==0.11.0
fonttools==4.28.5
kiwisolver==1.3.2
matplotlib==3.5.1
mpi4py==3.1.3
numpy==1.21.5
packaging==21.3
Pillow==9.0.0
pkg-resources==0.0.0
pybind11==2.9.0
pyparsing==3.0.6
python-dateutil==2.8.2
six==1.16.0
```

2. Setup `python-rdma-transport` on `seren-01`:
   - Checkout `python-rdma-transport` repository with `git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/askap-craco/python-rdma-transport.git`. `--recurse-submodules` is required here as we have dependent one submodule `rdma-data-transport`.
   - Bring up the above Python 3 virtual environment with `source /data/seren-01/fast/den15c/venv3.7/bin/activate`.
   - Install the package with `pip install .` in the directory of `python-rdma-transport`.

3. Setup `craco-python` on `seren-01` with development mode:
   - Checkout `craco-python` repository with `git clone https://github.com/askap-craco/craco-python.git`
   - Bring up the above Python 3 virtual environment with `source /data/seren-01/fast/den15c/venv3.7/bin/activate` if we do not have it up and running.
   - Run `pip install -e .` in the repository directory to install the package with development mode.

For the demos here, I assume that these repositories are at `/data/seren-01/fast/den15c' and we will find  a Python script `run_cluster_messages.py` at `/data/seren-01/fast/den15c/craco-python/mpitests`. The Python script will be used to launch MPI transmitters and receivers. It has help to tell us how to use it. For the demos here, we will set `--method` as `rdma`, will use default setup for `--test` option, the setup of `--nrx` and `--nlink` will be discussed in each demo seperately. `--num-blks`, `--nun-cmsgs` and `--msg-size` are important for performace, but using the setup given in the following demos should be good enough. `--nmsg` is the number of messages, which should not be too big or too small. 

## Summary of demos
We have demos for following user cases:
-  One transmitter and one receiver running on the same node, use multiple nodes;
-  One transmitter and one receiver running on seperate nodes, with one pair of transmitter and receiver;
-  Similar to the previous demo, but with multiple pairs of transmitters and receivers;
-  Two transmitters and two receivers running on the same node, receivers run on the same process, transmitters run on seperate processes, with only one node;
-  Similar to the previous demo, but with multiple nodes;
-  Two transmitters and two receivers running on seperate nodes, receivers run on the same node, transmitters run on seperate nodes, with one pair of three;
-  Similar to the previous demo, but with multiple pairs of three;

## One transmitter and one receiver running on the same node, use multiple nodes

The demo here has transmitter and receiver using the same network interface. 

1. Write the hostname of all nodes along with `slots=2` into a file like `mpi_seren.txt`, the file with all 10 nodes should look like as follow. 
```
seren-01 slots=2
seren-02 slots=2
seren-03 slots=2
seren-04 slots=2
seren-05 slots=2
seren-06 slots=2
seren-07 slots=2
seren-08 slots=2
seren-09 slots=2
seren-10 slots=2
```
2. Write a shell script `mpi_seren.sh` in `/data/seren-01/fast/den15c/craco-python/mpitests` to define the job which will be done by MPI, the following script is an example in `bash`:

```
#!/bin/bash

export WORKDIR=/data/seren-01/fast/den15c
source $WORKDIR/venv3.7/bin/activate; $WORKDIR/craco-python/mpitests/run_cluster_messages.py --nrx 10 --nlink 10 --method rdma --msg-size 65536 --num-blks 10 --num-cmsgs 100 --nmsg 100_000
```

3. Run `mpirun -map-by ppr:2:node --rank-by node -hostfile /data/seren-01/fast/den15c/craco-python/mpitests/mpi_seren.txt /data/seren-01/fast/den15c/craco-python/mpitests/mpi_seren.sh` to exacuth the job with MPI.

Once the execution is done, we should see print out information as follow:
```
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 transmitter elapsed time is 0.5373530387878418 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 0, elapsed time is 0.5373380184173584 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 transmitter data rate is 97.56863033336262 Gbps

INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 0, data rate is 97.57135769849394 Gbps
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 0, message missed is 0
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 0, message received is 100000
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 0, message total is 100000
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 0, message loss rate is 0.0

INFO:__main__:Rank 1 transmitter elapsed time is 0.5383594036102295 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 1 transmitter data rate is 97.38624355479502 Gbps

INFO:__main__:Rank 1 receiver from transmitter 0, elapsed time is 0.5383477210998535 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 1 receiver from transmitter 0, data rate is 97.38835690227698 Gbps
INFO:__main__:Rank 1 receiver from transmitter 0, message missed is 0
INFO:__main__:Rank 1 receiver from transmitter 0, message received is 100000
INFO:__main__:Rank 1 receiver from transmitter 0, message total is 100000
INFO:__main__:Rank 1 receiver from transmitter 0, message loss rate is 0.0

INFO:__main__:Rank 3 transmitter elapsed time is 0.5423808097839355 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 3 receiver from transmitter 0, elapsed time is 0.5423851013183594 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 3 transmitter data rate is 96.66418695913245 Gbps

INFO:__main__:Rank 3 receiver from transmitter 0, data rate is 96.66342211938137 Gbps
INFO:__main__:Rank 3 receiver from transmitter 0, message missed is 0
INFO:__main__:Rank 3 receiver from transmitter 0, message received is 100000
INFO:__main__:Rank 3 receiver from transmitter 0, message total is 100000
INFO:__main__:Rank 3 receiver from transmitter 0, message loss rate is 0.0

INFO:__main__:Rank 9 transmitter elapsed time is 0.542844295501709 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 9 receiver from transmitter 0, elapsed time is 0.5428245067596436 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 9 transmitter data rate is 96.58165413996682 Gbps

INFO:__main__:Rank 9 receiver from transmitter 0, data rate is 96.58517503745436 Gbps
INFO:__main__:Rank 9 receiver from transmitter 0, message missed is 0
INFO:__main__:Rank 9 receiver from transmitter 0, message received is 100000
INFO:__main__:Rank 9 receiver from transmitter 0, message total is 100000
INFO:__main__:Rank 9 receiver from transmitter 0, message loss rate is 0.0

INFO:__main__:Rank 6 transmitter elapsed time is 0.5433382987976074 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 6 transmitter data rate is 96.4938420796463 Gbps

INFO:__main__:Rank 6 receiver from transmitter 0, elapsed time is 0.5433351993560791 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 6 receiver from transmitter 0, data rate is 96.49439252626142 Gbps
INFO:__main__:Rank 6 receiver from transmitter 0, message missed is 0
INFO:__main__:Rank 6 receiver from transmitter 0, message received is 100000
INFO:__main__:Rank 6 receiver from transmitter 0, message total is 100000
INFO:__main__:Rank 6 receiver from transmitter 0, message loss rate is 0.0

INFO:__main__:Rank 2 transmitter elapsed time is 0.5436379909515381 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 2 transmitter data rate is 96.44064777046404 Gbps

INFO:__main__:Rank 2 receiver from transmitter 0, elapsed time is 0.5436296463012695 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 2 receiver from transmitter 0, data rate is 96.44212812291133 Gbps
INFO:__main__:Rank 2 receiver from transmitter 0, message missed is 0
INFO:__main__:Rank 2 receiver from transmitter 0, message received is 100000
INFO:__main__:Rank 2 receiver from transmitter 0, message total is 100000
INFO:__main__:Rank 2 receiver from transmitter 0, message loss rate is 0.0

INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 1
INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 0
INFO:__main__:Rank 5 transmitter elapsed time is 0.5442266464233398 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 5 transmitter data rate is 96.33633403392196 Gbps

INFO:__main__:Rank 5 receiver from transmitter 0, elapsed time is 0.5442161560058594 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 5 receiver from transmitter 0, data rate is 96.3381910320125 Gbps
INFO:__main__:Rank 5 receiver from transmitter 0, message missed is 0
INFO:__main__:Rank 5 receiver from transmitter 0, message received is 100000
INFO:__main__:Rank 5 receiver from transmitter 0, message total is 100000
INFO:__main__:Rank 5 receiver from transmitter 0, message loss rate is 0.0

INFO:__main__:Rank 8 receiver from transmitter 0, elapsed time is 0.5444185733795166 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 8 receiver from transmitter 0, data rate is 96.30237204168942 Gbps
INFO:__main__:Rank 8 transmitter elapsed time is 0.5444128513336182 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 8 transmitter data rate is 96.30338422681989 Gbps

INFO:__main__:Rank 8 receiver from transmitter 0, message missed is 0
INFO:__main__:Rank 8 receiver from transmitter 0, message received is 100000
INFO:__main__:Rank 8 receiver from transmitter 0, message total is 100000
INFO:__main__:Rank 8 receiver from transmitter 0, message loss rate is 0.0

INFO:__main__:Rank 4 receiver from transmitter 0, elapsed time is 0.5450468063354492 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 4 receiver from transmitter 0, data rate is 96.19137180620903 Gbps
INFO:__main__:Rank 4 transmitter elapsed time is 0.5450639724731445 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 4 transmitter data rate is 96.18834237403792 Gbps

INFO:__main__:Rank 4 receiver from transmitter 0, message missed is 0
INFO:__main__:Rank 4 receiver from transmitter 0, message received is 100000
INFO:__main__:Rank 4 receiver from transmitter 0, message total is 100000
INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 0
INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 1
INFO:__main__:Rank 4 receiver from transmitter 0, message loss rate is 0.0

INFO:__main__:Rank 7 transmitter elapsed time is 0.5458018779754639 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 7 receiver from transmitter 0, elapsed time is 0.5457911491394043 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 7 transmitter data rate is 96.05829901955174 Gbps

INFO:__main__:Rank 7 receiver from transmitter 0, data rate is 96.0601872761568 Gbps
INFO:__main__:Rank 7 receiver from transmitter 0, message missed is 0
INFO:__main__:Rank 7 receiver from transmitter 0, message received is 100000
INFO:__main__:Rank 7 receiver from transmitter 0, message total is 100000
INFO:__main__:Rank 7 receiver from transmitter 0, message loss rate is 0.0

INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 0
INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 1
INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 0
INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 1
INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 1
INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 0
INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 0
INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 1
INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 0
INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 1
INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 1
INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 0
INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 1
INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 0
INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 1
INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 0
```

The above print out information tells us that we successfully finish the test and the bandwidth on each node is about 100 Gbps.

Please be aware that, for the test here:
1. The example above is for a test with 10 nodes. We can change the number of nodes to any number in a range (0 10], but the number of nodes in `mpi_seren.txt` should matach the number given by `--nrx` and `--nlink`;
2. Make sure that all nodes in `mpi_seren.txt` are up and running fine;
3. The test here only for throughput check, not for test with result comparison, like the `--test=ones` or `--test=increment`. Test with result comparison will harm the performance so that receiver will not be able to receive all packets. Which will cause the script hangs as receivers may wait for missed packets forever.

## One transmitter and one receiver running on seperate nodes, with one pair of transmitter and receiver

1. Write the hostname of selected two nodes along with `slots=1` into a file like `mpi_seren.txt`, the file with `seren-01` and `seren-02` as selected nodes should look like as follow. In this case, we only have one pair of transmitter and receiver.
```
seren-01 slots=1
seren-02 slots=1
```
2. Write a shell script `mpi_seren.sh` in `/data/seren-01/fast/den15c/craco-python/mpitests` to define the job which will be done by MPI, the following script is an example in `bash`:

```
#!/bin/bash

export WORKDIR=/data/seren-01/fast/den15c
source $WORKDIR/venv3.7/bin/activate; $WORKDIR/craco-python/mpitests/run_cluster_messages.py --nrx 1 --nlink 1 --method rdma --msg-size 65536 --num-blks 10 --num-cmsgs 100 --nmsg 100_000
```

3. Run `mpirun -map-by ppr:1:node --rank-by node -hostfile /data/seren-01/fast/den15c/craco-python/mpitests/mpi_seren.txt /data/seren-01/fast/den15c/craco-python/mpitests/mpi_seren.sh` to exacuth the job with MPI.

Once the execution is done, we should see print out information as follow:
```
INFO:__main__:seren-01, rdma_buffers for receiver shape is (1, 10, 100, 65536)
INFO:__main__:seren-02, rdma_buffers for transmitter shape is (10, 100, 65536)
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 0, elapsed time is 0.5365250110626221 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 0, data rate is 97.71920957824764 Gbps
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 0, message missed is 0
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 0, message received is 100000
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 0, message total is 100000
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 transmitter elapsed time is 0.5365099906921387 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 transmitter data rate is 97.72194536836652 Gbps

INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 0, message loss rate is 0.0

INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 1
INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 0
```

The above print out information tells us that we successfully finish the test and the bandwidth sending data from `seren-02` to `seren-01` is about 100 Gbps.

Please be aware that, for the test here:
1. We can also select other nodes by updating the file `mpi_seren.txt`;
2. We need to make sure that both selected nodes are up and run fine;
3. `--nrx` and `--nlink` is determined by the number of transmitter and receiver pair.

## Similar to the previous demo, but with multiple pairs of transmitters and receivers

We can easily update the previous demo to run it with multiple pairs of transmitters and receivers. .

1. Add more nodes along with `slots=1` into a file like `mpi_seren.txt`, the file with `seren-01`, `seren-02` and `seren-03` and `seren-04` as selected nodes should look like as follow. In this case, we will have two pairs of transmitters and receivers. 
```
seren-01 slots=1
seren-02 slots=1
seren-03 slots=1
seren-04 slots=1
```
2. Update ` --nrx` and `--nlink` with correct number of transmitter and receiver pairs, for two pairs of transmitters and receivers, we have:

```
#!/bin/bash

export WORKDIR=/data/seren-01/fast/den15c
source $WORKDIR/venv3.7/bin/activate; $WORKDIR/craco-python/mpitests/run_cluster_messages.py --nrx 2 --nlink 2 --method rdma --msg-size 65536 --num-blks 10 --num-cmsgs 100 --nmsg 100_000
```

3. Run `mpirun -map-by ppr:1:node --rank-by node -hostfile /data/seren-01/fast/den15c/craco-python/mpitests/mpi_seren.txt /data/seren-01/fast/den15c/craco-python/mpitests/mpi_seren.sh` to exacuth the job with MPI.

Once the execution is done, we should see print out information as follow:
```
INFO:__main__:seren-03, rdma_buffers for transmitter shape is (10, 100, 65536)
INFO:__main__:seren-01, rdma_buffers for receiver shape is (1, 10, 100, 65536)
INFO:__main__:seren-02, rdma_buffers for receiver shape is (1, 10, 100, 65536)
INFO:__main__:seren-04, rdma_buffers for transmitter shape is (10, 100, 65536)
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 0, elapsed time is 0.5364596843719482 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 0, data rate is 97.7311092097819 Gbps
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 0, message missed is 0
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 0, message received is 100000
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 0, message total is 100000
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 0, message loss rate is 0.0

INFO:__main__:Rank 0 transmitter elapsed time is 0.5364863872528076 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 transmitter data rate is 97.72624477663412 Gbps

INFO:__main__:Rank 1 transmitter elapsed time is 0.5365962982177734 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 1 transmitter data rate is 97.7062275198965 Gbps

INFO:__main__:Rank 1 receiver from transmitter 0, elapsed time is 0.5365936756134033 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 1 receiver from transmitter 0, data rate is 97.7067050595898 Gbps
INFO:__main__:Rank 1 receiver from transmitter 0, message missed is 0
INFO:__main__:Rank 1 receiver from transmitter 0, message received is 100000
INFO:__main__:Rank 1 receiver from transmitter 0, message total is 100000
INFO:__main__:Rank 1 receiver from transmitter 0, message loss rate is 0.0

INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 0
INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 1
INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 1
INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 0
```

The above print out information tells us that we successfully finish the test and the bandwidth sending data from `seren-02` to `seren-01` and from `seren-04` to `seren-03` is about 100 Gbps.

## Two transmitters and two receivers running on the same node, receivers run on the same process, transmitters run on seperate processes, with only one node

The demo here has all transmitters and receivers running on the same network interface.

1. Bring up Python virtual environment with `source /data/seren-01/fast/den15c/venv3.7/bin/activate`
2. Go to directory `/data/seren-01/fast/den15c/craco-python/mpitests`
3. Run `mpirun -c 3 run_cluster_messages.py --nrx 1 --nlink 2 --method rdma --msg-size 65_536 --num-blks 10 --num-cmsgs 100 --nmsg 1_000_000` there to execute `run_cluster_messages.py` with MPI.

Once the execution is done, we should see print out information as follow:
```
INFO:__main__:seren-01, rdma_buffers for transmitter shape is (10, 100, 65536)
INFO:__main__:seren-01, rdma_buffers for transmitter shape is (10, 100, 65536)
INFO:__main__:seren-01, rdma_buffers for receiver shape is (2, 10, 100, 65536)
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 transmitter elapsed time is 10.084518432617188 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 transmitter data rate is 51.98939379239491 Gbps

INFO:__main__:Rank 1 transmitter elapsed time is 10.085363626480103 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 1 transmitter data rate is 51.98503687298204 Gbps

INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 0, elapsed time is 10.085368156433105 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 0, data rate is 51.98501352333627 Gbps
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 0, message missed is 0
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 0, message received is 1000000
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 0, message total is 1000000
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 0, message loss rate is 0.0

INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 1, elapsed time is 10.085368156433105 seconds
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 1, data rate is 51.98501352333627 Gbps
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 1, message missed is 0
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 1, message received is 1000000
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 1, message total is 1000000
INFO:__main__:Rank 0 receiver from transmitter 1, message loss rate is 0.0

INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 0
INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 1
INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 1
INFO:	Receive Visibilities ending 0
```

Which proves that we successfully finish the execution there. Given that we use a 100 Gbps NiC to do the test and we have two data streams there, each stream has about 50 Gbps available network bandwidth, which is exactly what we see here.
